## ['USAccDeaths' Dataset](https://coursera.org/learn/practical-time-series-analysis/exam/zMTi0/usaccdeaths-dataset)



This Quiz has several Questions all of which are related and steps towards modeling the time series titled '*USAccDeaths*' in 'dataset' package in R.

Plot the time series titled '*USAccDeaths*' in the code block below. 

```R
```



***[i]*** It is a monthly time series with a span of seasonality 12. 

*[ii]* There is a clear upward trend. 

***[iii]*** Time series is not stationary since there is a seasonal trend.

*[iv]* Peaks in the series happen every winter around February.

------

We first get rid of the seasonal trend by differencing the values at the same month of each year. Plot the seasonally differenced time series in the code block below.

```R
 
```

What can be said about the plot?



*[i]* The seasonally differenced time series is stationary.

***[ii]*** There is a clear upward trend.

------

We de-trend the seasonally differenced time series by taking non-seasonal differencing, diff(), and call the obtained time series 'acData'. Obtain ACF and PACF of 'acData' in the code block below.

```R
par(mfrow=c(2,1))

# obtain acf and pacf below
```

What do they suggest about the order of AR and seasonal AR terms?



*[i]* The significant autocorrelation coefficient at lag 12 suggests the order of seasonal AR term, $P\leq 1$.

***[ii]*** The significant partial autocorrelation coefficient at lag 12 suggests the order of seasonal AR term, $P\leq 1$.

*[iii]* Significant adjacent lags in ACF suggest the order of AR terms, $p\leq 1$.

***[iv]*** Significant adjacent lags in PACF suggest the order of AR terms, $p\leq 2$.

------

Obtain ACF and PACF of 'acData' in the code block below.

```R
par(mfrow=c(2,1))

# obtain acf and pacf below
```

What do they suggest about the order of MA and seasonal MA terms?



*[i]* Significant adjacent lags in PACF suggest the order of MA terms, $q\leq 2$.

***[ii]*** The significant autocorrelation coefficient at lag 12 suggests the order of seasonal MA term, $Q\leq 1$.

*[iii]* The significant partial autocorrelation coefficient at lag 12 suggests the order of seasonal MA term, $Q\leq 1$.

***[iv]*** Significant adjacent lags in ACF suggest the order of MA terms, $q\leq1$​

------

We try few different models, and choose the model with smallest AIC: SARIMA($0,1,1,0,1,1)_{12}$. If $X_t=USAccDeaths$, which of the followings is/are the fitted model?



***[i]*** $X_t=X_{t-1}+X_{t-12}-X_{t-13}+Z_t-0.4303Z_{t-1}-0.5528Z_{t-12}+0.2379Z_{t-13}$ where $\sigma_Z^2=99347$.

***[ii]*** $(1-B)(1-B^{12})X_t=(1-0.4303B)(1-0.5528B^{12})Z_t$ where $\sigma_Z^2=99347$.

*[iii]* $X_t=0.4303X_{t-1}+0.5528X_{t-12}-0.2379X_{t-13}+Z_t-Z_{t-1}-Z_{t-12}+Z_{t-13}$ where $\sigma_Z^2=99347$.

*[iv]* $(1-0.4303B)(1-0.5528B^{12})X_t=(1-B)(1-B^{12})Z_t$ where $\sigma_Z^2=99347$.

------

We carry residual analysis by using $sarima()$ routine from '*astsa*' package.

```R
library(astsa)

sarima(USAccDeaths, 0,1,1,0,1,1,12)
```

What do they suggest about the order of MA and seasonal MA terms?



*[i]* There is a strong evidence against the whiteness of the residuals.

***[ii]*** p-values from Ljung-Box test are high meaning that there is no significant autocorrelation left in the residuals.

***[iii]*** ACF shows no significant autocorrelation in the residuals.

***[iv]*** There is a systematic departure from linearity in QQ-plot which implies that residuals have a heavier tail compared to the Gaussian distribution.

------

Obtain the p-values of the coefficients in the fitted model in the code block below. 

```R
library(astsa)

model<-sarima(USAccDeaths, 0,1,1,0,1,1,12)
model$ttable
```

What do they mean?



***(a)*** p-values are $0.0008$ and $0.0028$ for MA and seasonal MA coefficients, respectively. The fact that they are both less than any reasonable significant level, both coefficients (terms) are significant.

*(b)* p-values are $0.1228$ and $0.1784$ for MA and seasonal MA coefficients, respectively. The fact that they are both higher than any reasonable significant level, none of the coefficients (terms) are significant.

------

Use $sarima.for()$ routine in the code block below to obtain the point forecast for the number of accidental deaths in the March of 1979. The answer is rounded.

```R
library(astsa)

### Write the arguments of the routine below
sarima.for()
```



*(a)* $8336$

*(b)* $7791$

*(c)* $7532$

***(d)*** $8315$